Are you ready to go freelance.
What are your expectations and goals for going freelance.
This lesson will help you explore to create those goals and understand the positives and negatives of
freelancing.
The pros easily match the cons in a freelance situation and knowing the negatives along with the positives
can help you prepare for a successful freelance career.
Walking down the street in my neighborhood I see large empty front porches and empty Sunny yards and
I wonder how much more time people spend away from home than actually enjoying it.
What if I didn't have to put on that suit and make that long commute to work in the morning.
What if he could take as many coffee or tea breaks as you'd like and still be productive.
How would you like to pick up your kids from school and not send them to aftercare.
There are many reasons why we want to pursue a freelance career and those are just some of the main
reasons.
There are drawbacks though.
One of the most unexpected drawbacks in my 15 year freelance career is the isolation working at home
and not having other colleagues to bounce ideas back and forth to each other.
There's also the issue of cashflow which will study a little bit later in the course.
Cash flow can be a bit unpredictable in the beginning few years and having to budget more diligently
to make it work for your family can be stressful.
Even with its drawbacks the biggest benefit to freelancing is being able to take charge of how you craft
your work.
The type of clients you work with and having total control over your own business freelancing is the
same as being a small business owner.
You take on the responsibilities of small business owners like paying monthly or quarterly taxes.
Keeping track of all your accounting and landing new clients it's all on your own.
But this can be freeing to those wanting and needing creative space to feel like they're adding something
of value to the world on their terms.
Freelancing does get easier with time and that means your first year is the hardest.
With many people dropping out finding clients one of the more frustrating freelancing tasks can be arduous.
But I can tell you it doesn't last forever.
There are moments when you have enough steady work and client referrals were constantly finding new
work is no longer your main task.
You need to start to focus on being creative instead.
The key here is to have reasonable expectations for your freelance career will you replace your current
salary or job.
I sure hope so and I hope to craft this course in a way to give you the best step forward.
But nothing is a guarantee.
Will you be able to work less.
Perhaps.
And the key to a great freelancer is maximizing productivity.
This comes easier for us once we work at home with less distractions and can set up systems that work
best for us and not those four systems we have to use in a larger company for example there's also new
management of our jobs.
There's nobody checking in to see for OK.
And this could be harder for used to having your performance reviewed and getting a good steady raise
each year.
This can be a huge plus though if you're a self starter who always prefer taking charge on their own
with less boss supervision insurance and benefits are something you have to work hard for as a freelancer.
Health insurance is something you need to purchase on your own with your own freelancing income.
If your spouse or partner does not have a plan at least that's the case for me in the United States
even if you have provided health coverage in your country.
You have to think about having your own retirement account and contributing money into that account
monthly.
There is no for a 1 K here.
You have to set it up all on your own as a freelancer you need to be ready for days full of tasks that
might not include your paid client work.
There are tasks like creating invoices proposals drafts emails and other forms of communications like
bookkeeping that may remain unpaid hours at a salary job you're paid for all the work you do as a freelancer
there's things that can't be billed to the client.
When we talk about pricing or services a little later on in the course we'll see why the average freelancers
hourly rate is generally much higher than a salaried workers hourly rate.
After you break it down you have notices when looking at freelancer Web sites and wonder how they're
able to charge such higher rates than workers who work for a company full time in the same industry.
First things first let's set up some goals for your freelance business that are both realistic and grounded.
I want to work through the goals worksheet to write down some of the goals you have for going freelance.
Also we want to explore questions like Do you want to pursue freelancing full time or keep it part time.
How much money do I want to make.
How many hours do I want to work each day and do I work on the weekends.
Download the worksheet and please as you work through these worksheets and exercises.
Feel free to share with the student Facebook group or post in the community section.
If you're willing or wanting to share others your goals as isolating as freelancing to be the best way
to prevent the negative side of that is constantly staying community with each other and with others
in your industry not only to share your work and find new clients but to share our dreams and frustrations.